\section{Literature review}\label{sec:review}

This section comprises what could be considered a \emph{classical} literature
review: an analysis of selected articles and publications that constitute the
state of their respective topics, as well as their intersections.

\subsection{Segmentation analysis}

Segmentation analysis allows for the targeted analysis of otherwise
heterogeneous datasets and encompasses several techniques from operational
research, statistics and machine learning. One of the most desirable qualities
of this kind of analysis is the ability to glean and communicate simplified
summaries of patient needs to stakeholders within a healthcare
system~\cite{Vuik2016b, Yoon2020}. For instance, clinical profiling often forms
part of the broader analysis where each segment is summarised in a phrase or
infographic~\cite{Vuik2016a, Yan2019}.

The review for this chapter identified three commonplace groups of patient
characteristics used to segment a patient population: system utilisation
metrics; clinical attributes; and the pathway. The last is not used to segment
the patients directly, instead of grouping their movements through a healthcare
system, typically via process mining.~\cite{Arnolds2018}~and~\cite{Delias2015}
demonstrate how this technique can be used to improve the efficiency of a
hospital system as opposed to tackling the more relevant issue of
patient-centred care. The remaining characteristics can be segmented in a
variety of ways, but recent works tend to favour unsupervised methods —
typically latent class analysis (LCA) or clustering~\cite{Yan2018}.

LCA is a statistical, model-based method used to identify groups (called latent
classes) in data by relating its observations to some unobserved (latent),
categorical attribute. This attribute has multiple possible categories, each
corresponding to a latent class. The discovered relations enable the
observations to be separated into latent classes according to their maximum
likelihood class membership~\cite{Hagenaars2002,Lazarsfeld1968}. This method has
proved useful in the study of comorbidity patterns as
in~\cite{Kuwornu2014,Larsen2017} where combinations of demographic and clinical
attributes are related to various subgroups of chronic diseases.

Similarly to LCA, clustering identifies groups (clusters) in data to produce
labels for its instances. However, clustering includes a wide variety of methods
where the common theme is to maximise homogeneity within, and heterogeneity
between, each cluster~\cite{Everitt2011}. The \(k\)-means paradigm is the most
popular form of clustering in literature. The method iteratively partitions
numerical data into \(k \in \mathbb N\) distinct parts where \(k\) is fixed a
priori. This method has proved popular as it is easily scalable, and its
implementations are concise~\cite{Olafsson2008,Wu2009}. In addition to
\(k\)-means, hierarchical clustering methods can be useful if a suitable number
of parts cannot be found initially~\cite{Vuik2016a}. However, supervised
hierarchical segmentation methods such as classification and regression trees
(as in~\cite{Harper2006}) have been used where an existing, well-defined, label
is of particular significance.

\subsection{Queuing models}

Since the seminal works by Erlang~\cite{Erlang1917,Erlang1920} established the
core concepts of queuing theory, the application of queues and queuing networks
to real services has become abundant, including the healthcare service. By
applying these models to healthcare settings, many aspects of the underlying
system can be studied. A common area of study in healthcare settings is of
service capacity.~\cite{McClain1976} is an early example of such work where
acute bed capacity was determined using hospital occupancy data. Meanwhile, more
modern works such as~\cite{Palvannan2012,Pinto2014} consider more extensive
sources of data to build their queuing models.  Moreover, the output of a model
is catered more towards being actionable --- as is the prerogative of
operational research. For instance,~\cite{Pinto2014} devises new categorisations
for both hospital beds and arrivals that are informed by the queuing model. A
further example is~\cite{Komashie2015} where queuing models are used to measure
and understand satisfaction among patients and staff.

In addition to these theoretic models, healthcare queuing research has expanded
to include computer simulation models. The simulation of queues, or networks
thereof, have the benefit of adeptly capturing the stochastic nuances of
hospital systems over their theoretic counterparts. Example areas include the
construction and simulation of Markov processes via process
mining~\cite{Arnolds2018,Rebuge2012}, and patient flow~\cite{Bhattacharjee2014}.
Regardless of the advantages of simulation models, a prerequisite is reliable
software with which to construct those simulations. A common approach to
building simulation models of queues is to use a graphical user interface such
as Simul8. These tools have the benefits of being highly visual, making them
attractive to organisations looking to implement queuing models without
necessary technical expertise, including the NHS.~\cite{Brailsford2013}
discusses the issues around operational research and simulation being taken up
in the NHS despite the availability of intuitive software packages like Simul8.
However, they do not address a core principle of good simulation work:
reproducibility. The ability to reliably reproduce a set of results is of great
importance to scientific research but remains an issue in simulation research
generally~\cite{Fitzpatrick2019}. When considering issues with reproducibility
in scientific computing (simulation included), the source of any concerns is
often with the software used~\cite{Ivie2018}. Using well-developed, open-source
software can alleviate issues around reproducibility and reliability as how they
are used involve less uncertainty and require more rigour than ‘drag-and-drop’
software. One example of such a piece of software is Ciw~\cite{Palmer2019}. Ciw
is a discrete event simulation library written in Python that is fully
documented and tested. The simulations constructed and studied in
Sections~\ref{sec:model}~and~\ref{sec:scenarios} utilise this library and aid
the overall reproducibility of this chapter.

\subsection{Handling incomplete queue data}

As is discussed in other parts of this section, the data available in this chapter
is not as detailed as in other comparative works. Without access to such data
--- but intending to gain insight from what is available --- it is
imperative to bridge the gap left by the incomplete data.

Moreover, it is often the case that in practical situations where suitable data
is not (immediately) available, further inquiry in that line of research will
stop. Queuing models in healthcare settings appear to be such a case; the line
ends at incomplete queue data.~\cite{Asanjarani2017} is a bibliographic work
that collates articles on the estimation of queuing system characteristics ---
including their parameters. Despite its breadth of almost 300 publications from
1955, only two articles have been identified as being applied to
healthcare:~\cite{Mohammadi2012,Yom2014}. Both works are concerned with
customers who can re-enter services during their time in the queuing system,
which is mainly of value when considering the effect of unpredictable behaviour
in intensive care units, for instance.~\cite{Mohammadi2012} seeks to approximate
service and re-service densities through a Bayesian approach and by filtering
out those customers seeking to be serviced again. On the other
hand,~\cite{Yom2014} considers an extension to the \(M/M/c\) queue with direct
re-entries. The devised model is then used to determine resource requirements in
two healthcare settings.

Aside from healthcare-specific works, the approximation of queue parameters has
formed a part of relevant modern queuing research. However, the scope is
primarily focused on theoretic approximations rather than by
simulation.~\cite{Djabali2018,Goldenshluger2016} are two such recent works that
consider an underlying process to estimate a general service time distribution
in single server and infinite server queues respectively.
